docs/installation/getting-started.md, before:

# Installation

Please follow the guide below to install SCVIDR and its dependent software.

## Docker Image

A pre-built Docker image is available through Docker Hub.




This Docker image is built based on Mac and includes the SCVIDR software and its dependencies.

### Quick Start with Docker

In this section, we provide example commands for our SCVIDR Docker image. We assume you have basic knowledge of Docker. If not, we highly recommend learning about Docker first.

#### Step 1: Download the SCVIDR Docker image

First, download the SCVIDR Docker image from Docker Hub:

```
docker pull bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data

```

This version includes the full SCVIDR setup along with the data/ folder.

If you prefer a lighter version without the data/ folder, use:

```
docker pull bhattacharyalab/scvidr:no-data
```
This version is smaller and suitable if you want to supply your own data separately.

#### Step 2: Create and run a Docker container

To run a Docker container with SCVIDR, you need to set up the ports for easy access. Here's how:

1. **Run the Docker container**:

    Use the following command to run the Docker container:
    
    ```bash
    docker run -dit \
      --name scvidr_container \
      -p 8888:8988 \
      bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
    ```

    Here's what each part of the command does:
    
    - **`docker run`**: This command is used to create and start a new container from an image.
    - **`-dit`**: 
      - `-d` (detached mode): Runs the container in the background.
      - `-i` (interactive): Keeps STDIN open, allowing interaction with the container.
      - `-t` (tty): Allocates a pseudo-terminal, allowing you to interact with the container's shell.
    - **`--name scvidr_container`**: Assigns a custom name (`scvidr_container`) to your running container so that it can be easily identified.
    - **`-p 8988:8988`**: Maps port 8988 on your local machine to port 8988 inside the Docker container. This allows you to access Jupyter Notebook running inside the container at `http://localhost:8988`. If port 8988 is already in use, replace the **left side** of the port mapping (e.g., `-p 8899:8988`) and access Jupyter at `http://localhost:8899`. Alternatively, you can copy the link provided in the terminal output after running the Jupyter Lab command inside the container, which includes the token for login.
    - **`bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data`**: Specifies the Docker image to use, in this case, the `scvidr` image from Docker Hub.
  

   > If you're using the `no-data` container, you can bind your local `data` folder to the container using `-v /full_data_path/data:/scVIDR/data`.



#### Step 3: Access the Docker container

To enter the Docker container, run the following command:

```
docker container exec -it scvidr_container /bin/bash

```


#### Step 4: Start Jupyter Notebook

Once inside the Docker container, you can start Jupyter Notebook with the following commands:

```
jupyter lab --port=8988 --ip=0.0.0.0 --allow-root --no-browser

```

### Adding GPU Support

SCVIDR can be GPU-accelerated for faster training of models. GPU support is available on **Linux** and **Windows (via WSL 2)** systems with an NVIDIA GPU and proper drivers. Unfortunately, macOS does not support GPU passthrough for Docker containers.

#### GPU Setup for Linux

1. **Install the NVIDIA GPU drivers**:
   - Ensure you have the latest NVIDIA drivers installed for your GPU.
   
2. **Install the NVIDIA Container Toolkit**:
   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install -y nvidia-container-toolkit
   sudo systemctl restart docker
   ```
  
3. **Access the Docker container with GPUS**:
  ```bash
  docker run --gpus all -dit \
  --name scvidr_gpu_container \
  -p 8888:8988 \
  bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
  ```
**Note:** Ensure that **CUDA drivers** are installed on the host machine if they aren’t already. Refer to the [CUDA Installation Guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html) for detailed instructions.


4. **Verify GPU access**: You can verify that the GPU is accessible inside the container by running.
```bash
docker exec -it scvidr_gpu_container /bin/bash
nvidia-smi
```

#### GPU Support Not Available on macOS

- **macOS** does not support GPU passthrough for Docker containers, meaning you cannot utilize GPUs for GPU-accelerated workloads on macOS.
- For GPU-accelerated SCVIDR usage, you’ll need to use a **Linux** system or **Windows with WSL 2**.

### Running SCVIDR in an HPC Environment

For High-Performance Computing (HPC) environments, Docker is generally not supported due to security and permission limitations. Instead, it is recommended to use Singularity (Apptainer) to sandbox the Docker image for proper directory mapping and GPU support.

**Step 1: Convert Docker Image to Singularity Image**

```bash
singularity pull docker://bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
```
**Step 2: Create a Writable Sandbox**

```bash
singularity build --sandbox scvidr_sandbox docker://bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
```
**Step 3: Enable GPU Support and Start Jupyter Lab**

```bash
singularity exec --nv --writable --pwd /scVIDR scvidr_sandbox jupyter lab --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --allow-root --port=8988
```

Ensure that the HPC environment allows port forwarding and consult the respective HPC documentation or administrators to configure SSH tunnels or firewall rules properly for accessing the Jupyter Lab environment running inside the container. This may involve requesting specific ports to be opened or setting up SSH port forwarding commands to map the remote Jupyter Lab port to your local machine. Example below:
```bash
ssh -L 8888:localhost:8988
```


### Important Notes

- **WSL Performance**: If you're using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), be aware that performance can be extremely slow. We don't recommend using Docker on Windows for SCVIDR.
- **Resources**: Ensure that your Docker container has enough memory to perform calculations smoothly.
- **Bugs**: If you encounter any bugs or errors with the Docker installation, please report them on the GitHub issue page.

## Docker Image Build Information

We built our Docker image using Docker's automatic build function. The Dockerfile is available [here](https://github.com/DrNamwob/scVIDR_VP_DB.git), allowing you to create a custom image if needed.

Commit message:

docs: add Singularity bind path note

docs/installation/getting-started.md, after:

# Installation

Please follow the guide below to install SCVIDR and its dependent software.

## Docker Image

A pre-built Docker image is available through Docker Hub.




This Docker image is built based on Mac and includes the SCVIDR software and its dependencies.

### Quick Start with Docker

In this section, we provide example commands for our SCVIDR Docker image. We assume you have basic knowledge of Docker. If not, we highly recommend learning about Docker first.

#### Step 1: Download the SCVIDR Docker image

First, download the SCVIDR Docker image from Docker Hub:

```
docker pull bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data

```

This version includes the full SCVIDR setup along with the data/ folder.

If you prefer a lighter version without the data/ folder, use:

```
docker pull bhattacharyalab/scvidr:no-data
```
This version is smaller and suitable if you want to supply your own data separately.

#### Step 2: Create and run a Docker container

To run a Docker container with SCVIDR, you need to set up the ports for easy access. Here's how:

1. **Run the Docker container**:

    Use the following command to run the Docker container:
    
    ```bash
    docker run -dit \
      --name scvidr_container \
      -p 8888:8988 \
      bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
    ```

    Here's what each part of the command does:
    
    - **`docker run`**: This command is used to create and start a new container from an image.
    - **`-dit`**: 
      - `-d` (detached mode): Runs the container in the background.
      - `-i` (interactive): Keeps STDIN open, allowing interaction with the container.
      - `-t` (tty): Allocates a pseudo-terminal, allowing you to interact with the container's shell.
    - **`--name scvidr_container`**: Assigns a custom name (`scvidr_container`) to your running container so that it can be easily identified.
    - **`-p 8988:8988`**: Maps port 8988 on your local machine to port 8988 inside the Docker container. This allows you to access Jupyter Notebook running inside the container at `http://localhost:8988`. If port 8988 is already in use, replace the **left side** of the port mapping (e.g., `-p 8899:8988`) and access Jupyter at `http://localhost:8899`. Alternatively, you can copy the link provided in the terminal output after running the Jupyter Lab command inside the container, which includes the token for login.
    - **`bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data`**: Specifies the Docker image to use, in this case, the `scvidr` image from Docker Hub.
  

   > If you're using the `no-data` container, you can bind your local `data` folder to the container using `-v /full_data_path/data:/scVIDR/data`.



#### Step 3: Access the Docker container

To enter the Docker container, run the following command:

```
docker container exec -it scvidr_container /bin/bash

```


#### Step 4: Start Jupyter Notebook

Once inside the Docker container, you can start Jupyter Notebook with the following commands:

```
jupyter lab --port=8988 --ip=0.0.0.0 --allow-root --no-browser

```

### Adding GPU Support

SCVIDR can be GPU-accelerated for faster training of models. GPU support is available on **Linux** and **Windows (via WSL 2)** systems with an NVIDIA GPU and proper drivers. Unfortunately, macOS does not support GPU passthrough for Docker containers.

#### GPU Setup for Linux

1. **Install the NVIDIA GPU drivers**:
   - Ensure you have the latest NVIDIA drivers installed for your GPU.
   
2. **Install the NVIDIA Container Toolkit**:
   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install -y nvidia-container-toolkit
   sudo systemctl restart docker
   ```
  
3. **Access the Docker container with GPUS**:
  ```bash
  docker run --gpus all -dit \
  --name scvidr_gpu_container \
  -p 8888:8988 \
  bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
  ```
**Note:** Ensure that **CUDA drivers** are installed on the host machine if they aren’t already. Refer to the [CUDA Installation Guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html) for detailed instructions.


4. **Verify GPU access**: You can verify that the GPU is accessible inside the container by running.
```bash
docker exec -it scvidr_gpu_container /bin/bash
nvidia-smi
```

#### GPU Support Not Available on macOS

- **macOS** does not support GPU passthrough for Docker containers, meaning you cannot utilize GPUs for GPU-accelerated workloads on macOS.
- For GPU-accelerated SCVIDR usage, you’ll need to use a **Linux** system or **Windows with WSL 2**.

### Running SCVIDR in an HPC Environment

For High-Performance Computing (HPC) environments, Docker is generally not supported due to security and permission limitations. Instead, it is recommended to use Singularity (Apptainer) to sandbox the Docker image for proper directory mapping and GPU support.

**Step 1: Convert Docker Image to Singularity Image**

```bash
singularity pull docker://bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
```
**Step 2: Create a Writable Sandbox**

```bash
singularity build --sandbox scvidr_sandbox docker://bhattacharyalab/scvidr:with-data
```
**Step 3: Enable GPU Support and Start Jupyter Lab**

```bash
singularity exec --nv --writable --pwd /scVIDR scvidr_sandbox jupyter lab --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --allow-root --port=8988
```

Ensure that the HPC environment allows port forwarding and consult the respective HPC documentation or administrators to configure SSH tunnels or firewall rules properly for accessing the Jupyter Lab environment running inside the container. This may involve requesting specific ports to be opened or setting up SSH port forwarding commands to map the remote Jupyter Lab port to your local machine. Example below:
```bash
ssh -L 8888:localhost:8988
```

> If you're using the `no-data` container in Singularity, you can bind your local `data` directory by adding the `--bind /full_data_path/data:/scVIDR/data` option to your `singularity exec` command.



### Important Notes

- **WSL Performance**: If you're using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), be aware that performance can be extremely slow. We don't recommend using Docker on Windows for SCVIDR.
- **Resources**: Ensure that your Docker container has enough memory to perform calculations smoothly.
- **Bugs**: If you encounter any bugs or errors with the Docker installation, please report them on the GitHub issue page.

## Docker Image Build Information

We built our Docker image using Docker's automatic build function. The Dockerfile is available [here](https://github.com/DrNamwob/scVIDR_VP_DB.git), allowing you to create a custom image if needed.
